---
layout: post
title: January 2023 Meeting
categories: Meetings
author: Natalia Brown, Bill Hereth, & Chris Day
---

Below is the agenda and notes for the January 2023 Utah MUG meeting. The meeting agenda and notes can also be viewed [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1INjGpaTnoyNo5jwV2wH1SD8sooiiuDyAiZdpoRF9ekA/edit)

# Agenda

1. Welcome & Introductions (~15min)

2. Utah MUG Vision and Objectives (~10 min)

   - Purpose: work together in an atmosphere of mutual respect and collaboration to inform, improve, and promote the science, art, and application of travel demand forecasting throughout the state of Utah
   - Draft Vision and Objectives document [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z6ld48rGetmpAedb_SXfKYHWFTKeKsJ8eG29Cvs5y74/edit#heading=h.d5e6e1reoyyp).

3. What MUG discusses and does not discuss (~5 min)
    
   - Types of Models Discussed

   | Land Use Models | Travel Demand Models | Other Models |
   |-----------------|----------------------|--------------|
   |Real Estate Market Model (REMM) used by MAG & WFRC|Utah Statewide Travel Model (USTM)|Bike Model|
   |Socioeconomic Allocation Model (spreadsheet model) used by UDOT, Cache MPO & Dixie MPO|Including Subarea Import (Snapping) Model|Access to Opportunity (ATO) Model|
   |                 |Wasatch Front Travel Demand Model| STOPS |
   |                 |Cache Travel Demand Model|           |
   |                 |Dixie Travel Demand Model|           |
   |                 |Summit-Wasatch Travel Demand Model|  |
   |                 |Iron County Travel Demand Model|     |

   - Types of Models Not Discussed
      - Microsimulation models
      - Air quality models

4. Meeting format and engagement (~5 min)

   - MUG committee will send an agenda the month before the meeting asking for presentation topics/discussion items. Everyone is welcome to submit: agencies, consultants, universities.
   - Meeting frequency: quarterly (January, April, July, October).
   - Meeting time: Tuesday at 10am.

5. Presentations (~40 min)

   - Utah Travel Demand Models (Agencies)
   - "Tooele Midvalley Highway EA Travel Modeling" by Avenue Consultants.

6. UTRAC Research Topics (~10 min)
 
   - Travel demand model accuracy evaluation
      - Using NCHRP Report 934 as a guide, assess the accuracy of Utah's historic travel demand model forecasts.
   - Socioeconomic data in TDM
      - Evaluate current socioeconomic data development methods and explore options for improvement. Includes all Utah TDMs (including USTM) except for the WFRC/MAG model.
   - Speed data accuracy in travel demand model
      - Assessment of how accurate speeds are for various area types and functional types in Utah's travel demand models.
   - Telecommute

7. Suggestion Box: please enter any suggestions [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeDrhBnu1zuc2MvGWOlZ1q85KSoE-NXFUH-Oc9id567GtV6Ow/viewform). 

# Notes

- Proposed to have different topics for each meeting. For example, focus one meeting on data, another on work in other states, another on national resources like NCHRP reports.
- Discussion about meeting frequency
   - Given all the topics, it may be valuable to meet every two months.
   - Some would like more frequent meetings. 
   - Others expressed concern with too frequent meetings because we are all very busy. 
   - Consultants expressed their time limitations.
   - Decided to start the meetings on a quarterly basis and see how it goes from there. 
- Discussion: would our own conference be of interest? 
   - Some think it would be valuable.
   - Have a stronger presence in existing groups (ITE, Utah Transportation Conference, others).
   - Have training sessions during an existing conference.
- Desire to have a newsletter or a non-meeting way of sharing knowledge (slack, others).
- Proposed to use ITE meetings as a forum for longer presentations (conference March 21st).



