---
layout: post
title: September 2023 Meeting
categories: Meetings
author: Chris Day
---

Below is the agenda and notes for the September 2023 Utah MUG meeting. The meeting agenda and notes can also be viewed [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1INjGpaTnoyNo5jwV2wH1SD8sooiiuDyAiZdpoRF9ekA/edit){:target="_blank"}

# Agenda

1. Welcome & Introductions (~5min)
   - "User of the Quarter"

2. Discussion Topics (~25 min)

   - Remove all future MUG calendar appointments. We will set up the next meeting during the MUG meeting (no recurring meeting).
   - MUG Executive Committee.
   - MUG website: feedback (Bill)
   - [Best Practices](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1chQ7D8hAQuFVv478rdDLal3MjjM0R-zsp9aYvOIezrE/edit#gid=0){:target="_blank"} and Helpful Tips (Natalia)
   - GitHub training (Greg)
      - WF Model training: October 17th @ 12pm (online option but not recommended)
      - Basic training on GitHub and version control (2-4 hours). Need to look into a venue to do this. Interest in virtual. 

3. Presentations (~60 min)
    
   - SE data development: WFRC, MAG, and the rest of the state.
   - Utah models status updates.
      - Update the group on status of the six models in the state: USTM, Cache, Dixie, Summit-Wasatch, and Iron.
      - Deeper dive on the WF model, including GitHub site, reports, what’s new, and other documentation available online.

4. Next meeting: Thursday January 18th 10:00-11:30am @ UDOT Complex (*proposed time -- check calendar appointment*)

5. Suggestion Box: please enter any suggestions [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeDrhBnu1zuc2MvGWOlZ1q85KSoE-NXFUH-Oc9id567GtV6Ow/viewform){:target="_blank"}. 

# Notes

- Next Utah MUG meeting will be January 18th, 2024
- We have a new website: [utahmug.org](https://utahmug.org/)
   - There is an option for an RSS feed signup which will give notifications for the website.
   - For any feedback, email us or use the [suggestion box](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeDrhBnu1zuc2MvGWOlZ1q85KSoE-NXFUH-Oc9id567GtV6Ow/viewform){:target="_blank"}.
- WFRC & MAG are transitioning the Wasatch Front model to GitHub
   - WFRC will hold a meeting to explain the new system on Oct 17th @ 12pm (you should have received an invitation already).
- The MUG will hold a training on how to use GitHub, specifically for version control
   - Interest shown in getting PDH credit from AICP or PE. Need to look into this.
   - Training that is in the works
   - Tentative 2-4 hr training
   - Working on date, time, venue, and virtual option
- SE Data Development Presentation
   - See online presentation for full details [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1115Fp97oPomuwhXzqj0yGPV3The5uPWlI1Jp2whvnhM/edit#slide=id.p){:target="_blank"}.
   - Discussion about the SE development process
   - TAZs
      - 688 new TAZs created in v9 of the WFRC model
      - More TAZs to line up BETTER with city boundaries, match existing and planned future roadways, etc
   - WFRC and MAG have SE data maps available online
   - Bill Herreth (WFRC) may have a tool that can break TAZs for you and distribute the TAZ data based on known information
      - Reach out to Bill sometime in the near future and get a better understanding
- Model Updates
   - Cache is up to date with RTP projects
      - Covers ALL of Cache County, not just the MPO area.
      - To obtain a copy of the model, email Jeff.
   - Dixie
      - Covers ALL of Washington County, not just the MPO area
      - Updated SE and RTP
      - Should be completely up to date soon
   - Summit, Iron, and USTM
      - Now starting final RTP review/addition
      - Anticipated to be completed at the end of October
   - All models
      - 2019, 2023, and SE data should all be good and calibrated
      - Models are not backwards compatible due to TAZ updates, area updates, GPI/county limits updates, and computing/black box updates
   - WFRC
      - There is a what’s new documentation that is 53 pages long
      - All edits are complete
      - 2019 base year calibration
      - New control totals
      - Model is now in GitHub. The model is private and is intended to be private. More details about this on the October 12th meeting.
      - Transit
         - Transit usage has increased a lot over v8.3.2
         - Interactive maps for differences between v8.3.2 and v9 should be available
- Links
   - [WFRC SE Viewer](https://wfrc.org/household-job-forecast-map/){:target="_blank"}
   - [MAG SE Viewer](https://mountainland.maps.arcgis.com/apps/dashboards/0a544d3da4714db2afdb9460d47275ab){:target="_blank"}
   - [WF Model Documentation](https://wfrc.org/wftdm-docs/){:target="_blank"}





