---
layout: post
title: WF TDM Version 9.1.0 - Official Release
categories: WF-TDM
author: Chris Day
---

Version 9.1.0 to the Wasatch Front Travel Demand Model (WF TDM) has been released. To access the new model, please visit the [WF TDM Official Releases Repository](https://github.com/WFRCAnalytics/WF-TDM-Official-Releases/releases/tag/v9.1.0-official){:target="_blank"}. If do not have access to the repository please request access by emailing Suzie Swim at sswim@wfrc.org or Tim Hereth at thereth@mountainland.org.

To view the pdf version of the What’s New Document, either download it [here](../downloads/v910 - What's New - 20241031.pdf) or via the GitHub Repository referenced above. Or view the online version of the What's New Document [here](https://wfrc.org/wftdm-docs/v9x/v910/whats-new/1-input-updates.html).

To view the pdf version of the Validation Report, either download it [here](../downloads/v910 - Model Validation - 20241031.pdf) or via the GitHub Repository referenced above. Or view the online version of the Validation Report [here](https://wfrc.org/wftdm-docs/v9x/v910/validation/1-distribute.html).

As stated in the document, version 9.1.0 was updated to accommodate projects from WFRC's adopted Amendment #2 and MAG's draft Amendment #2. Version 9.1.0 also reflects model script changes that support a custom-built standalone visualization tool (vizTool) for travel model data. In addition, the inclusion of a contained Python environment within the model as well as other Python related changes are highlighted in version 9.1.0. Other individual model processes were updated. Further details can be found in the What's New Document.

Have a very spooky day! Happy Halloween.