---
layout: post
title: September 2024 Meeting
categories: Meetings
author: Bill Hereth
---

**Date/Time:** Thursday September 12, 2024 10:00-11:30am  
**Location:** MAG Offices - 586 E 800 N, Orem, Utah 84097

# Agenda

## Welcome & Introductions 
- Anyone attending for the first time?
- User Spotlights

## Discussion Topics 
- Model status update
- Statewide Resources:
  - [SE forecasts](https://unifiedplan.org/utah-household-job-forecast-map/)
  - [Traffic Volumes](https://unifiedplan.org/traffic-volume-map/)
  - [Household Travel Surveys](https://unifiedplan.org/household-travel-surveys/)
- Git Training
  - *Date:* Tuesday, October 15, 2024
  - *Time:* 2:00 - 4:00 pm
  - *Location:* Redwood B Conference Room @ UDOT Complex
  - *Summary:* Greg Macfarlane (BYU professor) will provide an introduction to software version control for transportation analysts. This training is aimed at those who have heard of Git, but have never used it, or who have used it but didn't really know what they were doing. 
- Utah MUG Website
- Others?

## Presentations

* **[Visualizing WF TDM Outputs via the New vizTool](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZrE6csbAJ6p5UFqkcafWv9Qa-vOIcZ-mv0npilMEW7E/edit?usp=sharing)**<br/>*Bill Hereth – Data Scientist, Wasatch Front Regional Council*<br/>*Summary:* The upcoming v9.1 release of the Wasatch Front Travel Demand Model will feature a new visualization tool, vizTool, designed to enhance the way users interact with and analyze model outputs. This tool simplifies the process of exploring complex data sets by providing an intuitive and user-friendly interface, allowing users to easily interpret and present key insights from scenario runs. The vizTool offers dynamic, accessible visualizations tailored to travel demand model users. We will solicit feedback from those present at the meeting to see how we can best support users to make this a successful tool.

* **Half Time Break**<br>

* **[Illustrating the use of Activity-based models in Utah](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PEzDVVTjSzG21b1hGNbZ5ppHctOgUKiWun9xe4_frhg/edit#slide=id.g1354406bfd5_0_0)**<br/>*Greg Macfarlane – Assistant Professor, Brigham Young University*<br/>*Tim Baird – Associate, Fehr & Peers*<br/>*Hayden Atchley – Travel Demand Modeler, Utah Department of Transportation*<br/>*Summary:* In the past 20 years, many MPO’s in the United States have moved to an activity-based model for their transportation planning efforts, and lessons learned from this transition have affected the decisions of other agencies for almost that time period. A recent UDOT and WFRC- funded research project examined attitudes towards activity-based models from current practitioners, and illustrated how scenario analysis works in both models. The results of the research suggest that modern activity-based models might not be as difficult to configure and use as commonly believed.

## Next meeting
* **Date/Time:** Thursday, January 16, 10:00-11:30 am @ UDOT

## Suggestion Box
- Please enter any suggestions [here](https://forms.gle/jv6GNKzSMeUwM2M69).

## 🍽 lunchiMUG
- Gather with us at Culvers (1211 W 800 N Orem) for lunch.
