---
layout: post
title: May 2024 Meeting
categories: Meetings
author: Bill Hereth
---

**Date/Time:** Thursday May 9th, 2024 10:00-11:30am  
**Location:** WFRC Offices - 41 N Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT 84101  

# Agenda

## Welcome & Introductions 
- Anyone attending for the first time?
- User Spotlights

## Discussion Topics 
- Model status update
- Git Training
  - *Find a time:* [Schedule on Doodle](https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/dN57lPDb)
  - *Location:* UDOT Complex (Room TBD)
  - *Summary:* Greg Macfarlane (BYU professor) will provide an introduction to software version control for transportation analysts. This training is aimed at those who have heard of Git, but have never used it, or who have used it but didn’t really know what they were doing. 

## Presentations

* **Representing Capacity Constraints on Park and Ride Facilities**<br/>*David Ory – Vice President, WSP*<br/>*Summary:* For many transit systems or services, parking capacity at park and ride facilities constraints and/or influences ridership. In this presentation, David will discuss three approaches in travel modeling to represent capacity constraints at park and ride facilities.

* **Half Time Break: UtahMUG Training Topics Ranking - Live Poll**<br>*Bill Hereth - WFRC*

* **Historic AADT and Traffic Counts on Utah’s Highways**<br/>*Nicolas Black – Traffic Data Analytics Manager, UDOT*<br/>*Summary:* Agencies across the state use the AADT published by UDOT to validate their models. In this presentation, Nicolas will provide an overview of the process to create the AADT and a list of resources to obtain traffic data that could assist with modeling efforts.

## Next meeting
* **Date/Time:** Thursday, September 12th 10:00-11:30 am @ MAG

## Suggestion Box
- Please enter any suggestions [here](https://forms.gle/jv6GNKzSMeUwM2M69).

## 🍽 lunchiMUG
- Gather with us at [HallPass](https://www.hallpassslc.com/) for lunch.
