---
layout: post
title: January 2024 Meeting
categories: Meetings
author: Chris Day
---

Thanks again for attending our January 2024 meeting! A few items that may be helpful for you: 

 - Attached is a detailed agenda to help those that need to keep records (like PDH credits). Disclaimer: The respective Board that is relevant to the professional license in question has final authority on the acceptance of courses for PDH credit.
 - We added meeting notes to the running agenda [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1INjGpaTnoyNo5jwV2wH1SD8sooiiuDyAiZdpoRF9ekA/edit){:target="_blank"}. 
If you want to attend the "WF TDM v9 What's New" meeting, please fill out this [calendly link](https://calendly.com/d/43k-8gx-k64/wf-travel-demand-model-version-9-what-s-new-details?month=2024-01){:target="_blank"} by EOD TODAY.

As always, if you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out! The agenda and notes from the meeting are also recorded below.

# Agenda

1. Welcome & Introductions (~5min)
   - Anyone attending for the first time?
   - "User Spotlight"

2. Discussion Topics (~ min)

   - PDH credits
   - Pre-meeting agenda, is that useful? Is there a better way to get at the topics you’d like to hear about? 
   - Feedback on WF GitHub training and use (Chris Day)
   - Prioritize topics for future meetings. 
   - Model status update.
 

3. Presentations (~ min)
    
   - TAZ Splits Best Practices (Suzie Swim and Bill Hereth)
   - Deeper Dive into Wasatch Front Model v9.0 Changes (Chad Worthen)
   - WF TDM Model Development Plan (Chad Worthen)


4. Next meeting: Thursday May 9th 10:00-11:30am @ WFRC.

5. Suggestion Box: please enter any suggestions [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeDrhBnu1zuc2MvGWOlZ1q85KSoE-NXFUH-Oc9id567GtV6Ow/viewform){:target="_blank"}. 

# Notes

**TAZ Splitting Best Practices**
*Suzie Swim and Bill Hereth*
 
 - Suzie – TAZ Boundaries.  WFRC staff did a review for the WFRC model, including:
    - Overall TAZ Size
    - Gov/ cartographic Boundaries
    - Geographic barriers
    - Neighborhood barriers
    - Transportation barriers
 - Completed a full sweep of TAZs in WFRC model.  Chad added there was additional coordination with Hill AFM, Point of the Mountain, and Daybreak. Jim Wadley asked about how to deal with areas where TAZ boundaries don’t align well with Census Boundaries. 
 - Chad noted that Census boundaries don't always make sense in a transportation planning context. WFRC uses as a guidepost, and don’t always follow, but try to hold TAZ boundaries to tract and block group when possible. They use address points, and other techniques to cross-walk the data when necessary.
 - Bill – [WFRC TAZ Split Process](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1r-RvBGBuvtX1OMGBStltk5ZVkjRSFC3HolNGgSzC-bo/edit?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"}: 
    - Why split TAZS?
    - How to Split TAZs
    - Plan out TAZ Splits and numbering (dummy zones are in general parameters)
    - Edit TAZ Shapefile
    - Edit Master Network (make sure to have transit lines loaded in)
    - Edit General Parameters for TAZ Ranges
    - Edit zonal input files
       - SE_yyyy.csv files
       - Age Percent Lookup
    - Note: highway nodes need to be between 10000 and 99999
    - Note: there is a document on node schema in the inputs folder
 - Chad mentioned to be sure to look at median income, HH size, and age % assumptions for new developments and don’t duplicate school enrollment if there is a school in a zone that is to be split.
 
**WF TDM Development Plan**
*Chad Worthen*

 - Year 1    - v9.0 – Can use for early planning + visioning - includes 2023 RTP.
    - v9.1 will come out this summer and will include RTP amendments, Rapid Data Visualization, and other model enhancements.
 - Year 2    - v10.0 Beta (Phase 1)﻿
    - Overhaul Distribution, Mode Choice, + Truck Model
    - Calibrated to 2019 BY (potentially use 2023 HH Survey)
 - Year 3	- V10.0 Beta (Phase 2)
    - 2023 BY
    - New SE Forecasts + Control Totals
    - Final Draft 2027 RTP Highway and Transit Projects
    - AQ Determination
 - Year 4    - V10.0
    - 2027 RTP






