---
layout: post
title: May 2025 Meeting
categories: Meetings
author: Natalia Brown
---

**Date/Time:** Thursday May 8, 2025 10:00-11:30am  
**Location:** WFRC - 41 N Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT 84101 <br/>
*Download PDF Agenda [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sfJO8HW7z8GQryroCEXRrp0xKioC3REw/view?usp=sharing)*

Virtual option available through the calendar appointment. Email utahMUG@gmail.com to request the calendar appointment.

# Agenda

## Welcome & Introductions 
- Anyone attending for the first time?
- User Spotlights

## Discussion Topics 
- **Utah-Specific resources:**
  - Volume traffic map ([link](https://unifiedplan.org/traffic-volume-map/){:target="_blank"})
  - Household/Job viewer ([link](https://unifiedplan.org/utah-household-job-forecast-map/){:target="_blank"})
  - Model one-pagers and documentation ([link](https://utahmug.org/models/){:target="_blank"})
- **Model Status Update** ([link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10oamHc9ogYgSUA8_kOSH9_BzyWuUlVTWjH_W7XGcx7w/edit?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"})
  - Utah Statewide Travel Model: Natalia Brown, UDOT
  - Wasatch Front TDM: Chad Worthen, WFRC
  - Cache TDM: Isaac Gardner, CMPO
  - Dixie TDM: Radhika Bhandari, DMPO
  - Summit-Wasatch TDM: Natalia Brown, UDOT
  - Iron TDM: Natalia Brown, UDOT
- **Presentation solicitations** ([link](https://forms.gle/wsjRcwJtFuRzzgFN7))
- **Others?**

## Presentations

* **Adapting Machine Learning Algorithms to Longitudinally Calibrate the UrbanSim Model System** *Paul Waddell, UrbanSim Inc.*<br/>*Summary: This presentation describes the application of techniques developed in the Machine Learning domain to use back-propagation and automatic differentiation to longitudinally calibrate the UrbanSim cloud-based land use modeling platform. It enables longitudinal calibration of all model parameters to maximize the ability of the model to accurately predict spatial development patterns, household and employment location patterns, housing construction, and housing prices and rents over time. We also highlight the application of these modeling techniques to the GNRC region.* 

* **Half Time Break**<br>*Jared Lillywhite, Mountainland Association of Governments*

* **Planners’ Perspective on Using Big Data** <br/>*Keith Hangland, Bentley Systems, Incorporated*<br/>*Summary: This presentation will dig into the value of big data for transportation planners, including the challenges and opportunities it presents. We will get into details on sources of data, how modes are derived, potential biases, and practical uses cases for transportation planners.* 

## Next meeting
* **Date/Time:** Thursday, September 11, 10:00-11:30 am @ MAG.

## 🍽 lunchiMUG
- Gather with us at HallPass for lunch.

# Notes