---
layout: post
title: January 2025 Meeting
categories: Meetings
author: Natalia Brown
---

**Date/Time:** Thursday January 16, 2025 10:00-11:30am  
**Location:** UDOT Complex: Lester Wire Room - 4501 Constitution Blvd, Taylorsville, UT 84129

Virtual option available through the calendar appointment. Email utahMUG@gmail.com to request the calendar appointment.

# Agenda

## Welcome & Introductions 
- Anyone attending for the first time?
- User Spotlights

## Discussion Topics 
- WF VizTool Demo: Socio-Economic and Access-to-Opportunities Results
  - Friday January 17th @ 12:15.
- **Model Status Update** ([link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10oamHc9ogYgSUA8_kOSH9_BzyWuUlVTWjH_W7XGcx7w/edit?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"})
  - Utah Statewide Travel Model: Natalia Brown, UDOT
  - Wasatch Front TDM: Chad Worthen, WFRC
  - Cache TDM: Isaac Gardner, CMPO
  - Dixie TDM: Radhika Bhandari, DMPO
  - Summit-Wasatch TDM: Natalia Brown, UDOT
  - Iron TDM: Natalia Brown, UDOT
- **Others?**

## Presentations

* **Summit-Wasatch Model Calibration Updates for Mode Choice and Seasonal Modeling** ([link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UEnYdN2vPsOHB-ob13vMn-PQXaHyqYeD/edit?usp=drive_link&ouid=114966978052404666809&rtpof=true&sd=true){:target="_blank"})<br/>*Craig Gresham, Fehr & Peers*<br/>*Summary:* Fehr & Peers, in collaboration with UDOT, updated the Summit-Wasatch Mode Choice and Seasonal Model components.  They made adjustments to trip generation and mode choice specifications in the model and compared it against available 2019 and 2023 data.  The updated model represents spring/fall, summer, and winter weekday travel and includes updated transit routes for High Valley Transit and Park City Transit.

* **Half Time Break**<br>*Chris Day, Wasatch Front Regional Council ([link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YW3OPPTMQzOIcl96ROmfDEcsgaMATge1ndNsdIAlHt8/edit#slide=id.p){:target="_blank"})*

* **WFRC Center-Based Manual Reallocation Land Use Scenarios and their Traffic and Transit Impacts** ([link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/189tnpSYtZ1kKfGOMuylOH7iSFy3SJM_a_sQeWyejCOk/edit?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"})<br/>*Bill Hereth & Suzie Swim, Wasatch Front Regional Council*<br/>*Summary:* As part of the development of the 2027 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), the Long-Range Planning team at WFRC envisioned a planning-level analysis to evaluate potential impacts and opportunities of two hypothetical land use scenarios using the Travel Demand Model. The first scenario examines the addition of bus rapid transit or light rail and densified land use around station areas on three key roadway corridors. The second scenario involves region-wide densification of all Wasatch Choice Centers, concentrating jobs and households within transit-accessible centers. Land use reallocation was performed outside the REMM model using a Python-based automated process to meet station area or Wasatch Choice center density targets while maintaining county control totals. This presentation will cover the land use reallocation methodology, as well as the resulting impacts on auto ownership, mode shifts, roadway traffic volumes, and transit ridership.

## Next meeting
* **Date/Time:** Thursday, May 8, 10:00-11:30 am @ WFRC

## Suggestion Box
- Please enter any suggestions [here](https://forms.gle/jv6GNKzSMeUwM2M69){:target="_blank"}.

## 🍽 lunchiMUG
- Gather with us at Zupas (3599 S 2700 W) for lunch.

# Notes